# SURPAS-ShinyApp
Development of a surgical risk assessment tool using the R Shiny package.
The Surgical Risk Preoperative Assessment System (SURPAS) application is built using the Shiny package in R . Users simply fill in all required input fields to get the corresponding results.
The UI component specifies how the web environment is displayed, how the user will interact with inputs, and the manner in which outputs are delivered. The SURPAS application has been constructed to accept the seven patient and surgical variables necessary to calculate the risk of 12 different postoperative outcomes. The input fields with a small number of options such as surgical specialty, functional health status (FHS), ASA class, emergency indicator, and in/out-patient status, are filled in with a dropdown menu. Both age and procedure (CPT) can be specified directly with a text field or changed with a click in the dropdown menu. 
The server component of the application carries out the computations specified by user inputs and generates a plot and table of the results. The risk for each outcome is directly calculated as specified by the logistic regression model that was developed for SURPAS. User inputs are paired with the beta values previously obtained from ACS NSQIP data to calculate individual risk as well as the national average when the specified procedure has enough data.  The final role of the server is to build a plot and table to compare individual patient risk and national average risk if the surgical data is available.
